---
author: wanghaisheng
cover:
  alt: cover
  square: https://www.apple.com.cn/newsroom/images/product/homepod/standard/Apple-HomePod-hero-230118_big.jpg.large_2x.jpg
  url: https://www.apple.com.cn/newsroom/images/product/homepod/standard/Apple-HomePod-hero-230118_big.jpg.large_2x.jpg
description: ''
featured: true
keywords: key1, key2, key3
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPost.astro
meta:
- content: Boa Jang et.al.
  name: author
- content: key3, key4
  name: keywords
pubDate: '2024-08-19 11:32:23'
tags:
- all search terms
- dataset
theme: light
title: A DiseaseSpecific Foundation Model Using Over 100K Fundus Images Release and
  Validation for Abnormality and MultiDisease Classification on Downstream Tasks
---

# title: A DiseaseSpecific Foundation Model Using Over 100K Fundus Images Release and Validation for Abnormality and MultiDisease Classification on Downstream Tasks 
## publish date: 
**2024-08-16** 
## authors: 
  Boa Jang et.al. 
## paper id
2408.08790v1
## download
[2408.08790v1](http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.08790v1)
## abstracts:
Artificial intelligence applied to retinal images offers significant potential for recognizing signs and symptoms of retinal conditions and expediting the diagnosis of eye diseases and systemic disorders. However, developing generalized artificial intelligence models for medical data often requires a large number of labeled images representing various disease signs, and most models are typically task-specific, focusing on major retinal diseases. In this study, we developed a Fundus-Specific Pretrained Model (Image+Fundus), a supervised artificial intelligence model trained to detect abnormalities in fundus images. A total of 57,803 images were used to develop this pretrained model, which achieved superior performance across various downstream tasks, indicating that our proposed model outperforms other general methods. Our Image+Fundus model offers a generalized approach to improve model performance while reducing the number of labeled datasets required. Additionally, it provides more disease-specific insights into fundus images, with visualizations generated by our model. These disease-specific foundation models are invaluable in enhancing the performance and efficiency of deep learning models in the field of fundus imaging.
## QA:
coming soon
