---
author: wanghaisheng
cover:
  alt: cover
  square: https://www.apple.com.cn/newsroom/images/product/homepod/standard/Apple-HomePod-hero-230118_big.jpg.large_2x.jpg
  url: https://www.apple.com.cn/newsroom/images/product/homepod/standard/Apple-HomePod-hero-230118_big.jpg.large_2x.jpg
description: ''
featured: true
keywords: key1, key2, key3
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPost.astro
meta:
- content: Yong Zhao et.al.
  name: author
- content: key3, key4
  name: keywords
pubDate: '2025-01-06 11:37:01'
tags:
- all search terms
- dataset
theme: light
title: Aligning Large Language Models for Faithful Integrity Against Opposing Argument
---

# title: Aligning Large Language Models for Faithful Integrity Against Opposing Argument 
## publish date: 
**2025-01-02** 
## authors: 
  Yong Zhao et.al. 
## paper id
2501.01336v1
## download
[2501.01336v1](http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01336v1)
## abstracts:
Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in complex reasoning tasks. However, they can be easily misled by unfaithful arguments during conversations, even when their original statements are correct. To this end, we investigate the problem of maintaining faithful integrity in LLMs. This involves ensuring that LLMs adhere to their faithful statements in the face of opposing arguments and are able to correct their incorrect statements when presented with faithful arguments. In this work, we propose a novel framework, named Alignment for Faithful Integrity with Confidence Estimation (AFICE), which aims to align the LLM responses with faithful integrity. Specifically, AFICE first designs a Bilateral Confidence Estimation (BCE) approach for estimating the uncertainty of each response generated by the LLM given a specific context, which simultaneously estimate the model's confidence to the question based on the internal states during decoding as well as to the answer based on cumulative probability ratios. With the BCE, we construct a conversational preference dataset composed of context, original statement, and argument, which is adopted for aligning the LLM for faithful integrity using Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). Extensive experimental results on a wide range of benchmarks demonstrate significant improvements in the LLM's ability to maintain faithful responses when encountering opposing arguments, ensuring both the practical utility and trustworthiness of LLMs in complex interactive settings. Code and data will be released via https://github.com/zhaoy777/AFICE.git
## QA:
coming soon
