---
author: wanghaisheng
cover:
  alt: cover
  square: https://www.apple.com.cn/newsroom/images/product/homepod/standard/Apple-HomePod-hero-230118_big.jpg.large_2x.jpg
  url: https://www.apple.com.cn/newsroom/images/product/homepod/standard/Apple-HomePod-hero-230118_big.jpg.large_2x.jpg
description: ''
featured: true
keywords: key1, key2, key3
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPost.astro
meta:
- content: Yushen Lin et.al.
  name: author
- content: key3, key4
  name: keywords
pubDate: '2025-01-20 11:34:12'
tags:
- all search terms
- dataset
theme: light
title: Empowering Large Language Models in Wireless Communication A Novel Dataset
  and FineTuning Framework
---

# title: Empowering Large Language Models in Wireless Communication A Novel Dataset and FineTuning Framework 
## publish date: 
**2025-01-16** 
## authors: 
  Yushen Lin et.al. 
## paper id
2501.09631v1
## download
[2501.09631v1](http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09631v1)
## abstracts:
In this work, we develop a specialized dataset aimed at enhancing the evaluation and fine-tuning of large language models (LLMs) specifically for wireless communication applications. The dataset includes a diverse set of multi-hop questions, including true/false and multiple-choice types, spanning varying difficulty levels from easy to hard. By utilizing advanced language models for entity extraction and question generation, rigorous data curation processes are employed to maintain high quality and relevance. Additionally, we introduce a Pointwise V-Information (PVI) based fine-tuning method, providing a detailed theoretical analysis and justification for its use in quantifying the information content of training data with 2.24\% and 1.31\% performance boost for different models compared to baselines, respectively. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the fine-tuned models with the proposed methodologies on practical tasks, we also consider different tasks, including summarizing optimization problems from technical papers and solving the mathematical problems related to non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA), which are generated by using the proposed multi-agent framework. Simulation results show significant performance gain in summarization tasks with 20.9\% in the ROUGE-L metrics. We also study the scaling laws of fine-tuning LLMs and the challenges LLMs face in the field of wireless communications, offering insights into their adaptation to wireless communication tasks. This dataset and fine-tuning methodology aim to enhance the training and evaluation of LLMs, contributing to advancements in LLMs for wireless communication research and applications.
## QA:
coming soon
